InfluxDB Clustered partial writes (#5594)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/clustered/admin/env-vars.md

Reviewer: This looks very nice now, thank you :100:

the [InfluxDB v3 storage engine architecture](/influxdb/clustered/reference/internals/storage-engine/)._

## Set environment variables for a component

1.  Under the specific component property, use the `<component>.template.containers.iox.env`
    property to define environment variables.
2.  In the `env` property, structure each environment variable as a key-value pair.
    For example, to configure environment variables for the Garbage collector:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: kubecfg.dev/v1alpha1
    kind: AppInstance
    metadata:
      name: influxdb
      namespace: influxdb
    spec:
      package:
        # ...
        spec:
          components:
            garbage-collector:
            template:
              containers:
                iox:
                  env:
                    INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_OBJECTSTORE_CUTOFF: '6h'
                    INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_PARQUETFILE_CUTOFF: '6h'
    ```

3.  Use `kubectl apply` to apply the configuration changes to your cluster and
    add or update environment variables in each component.

    ```sh
    kubectl apply \
      --filename myinfluxdb.yml \
      --namespace influxdb
    ```
{{% note %}}

> #### Update environment variables instead of removing them

Author: ```suggestion
#### Update environment variables instead of removing them

```

          # Garbage collector settings ...
```

_For more information about components in the InfluxDB v3 storage engine, see
the [InfluxDB v3 storage engine architecture](/influxdb/clustered/reference/internals/storage-engine/)._

## Set environment variables for a component

1.  Under the specific component property, use the `<component>.template.containers.iox.env`
    property to define environment variables.
2.  In the `env` property, structure each environment variable as a key-value pair.
    For example, to configure environment variables for the Garbage collector:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: kubecfg.dev/v1alpha1
    kind: AppInstance
    metadata:
      name: influxdb
      namespace: influxdb
    spec:
      package:
        # ...
        spec:
          components:
            garbage-collector:
            template:
              containers:
                iox:
                  env:
                    INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_OBJECTSTORE_CUTOFF: '6h'
                    INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_PARQUETFILE_CUTOFF: '6h'
    ```

3.  Use `kubectl apply` to apply the configuration changes to your cluster and
    add or update environment variables in each component.

>     ```sh

Author: ~~~suggestion
    <!-- pytest.mark.skip -->

    ```bash
~~~

2.  In the `env` property, structure each environment variable as a key-value pair.
    For example, to configure environment variables for the Garbage collector:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: kubecfg.dev/v1alpha1
    kind: AppInstance
    metadata:
      name: influxdb
      namespace: influxdb
    spec:
      package:
        # ...
        spec:
          components:
            garbage-collector:
            template:
              containers:
                iox:
                  env:
                    INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_OBJECTSTORE_CUTOFF: '6h'
                    INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_PARQUETFILE_CUTOFF: '6h'
    ```

3.  Use `kubectl apply` to apply the configuration changes to your cluster and
    add or update environment variables in each component.

    ```sh
    kubectl apply \
      --filename myinfluxdb.yml \
      --namespace influxdb
    ```
{{% note %}}
#### Update instead of removing environment variables

Removing environment variables from your `AppInstance` resource configuration
will not revert those environment variables to their default setting.
To revert back to the default settings, update the value in your `AppInstance`

> resource to the default value rather than removing the environment variable definition.

Reviewer: This is not quite true.

Removing a variable won't "remove it" in the sense of not setting anything. If there is a default then it will go back to that.

E.g. the cutoff variables from above (and other variables that get changed) are really _overrides_ for most things. The default there being `30d`, but altered in the example to `6h`.

> 
> Removing environment variables from your `AppInstance` resource configuration
> will not revert those environment variables to their default setting.
> To revert back to the default settings, update the value in your `AppInstance`
> resource to the default value rather than removing the environment variable definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most configuration settings that can be overridden by environment variables have default values that are used if the environment variable is unset.
Removing environment variables from your `AppInstance` resource configuration will not remove those environment variables entirely; instead, they will revert to their default settings.
To revert to the default settings, simply unset the environment variable or update the value in your `AppInstance` resource to the default value.

In the preceding example, the `INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_OBJECTSTORE_CUTOFF` environment variable is set to `6h`.
If you remove `INFLUXDB_IOX_GC_OBJECTSTORE_CUTOFF` from the `env` property, the cutoff reverts to its default setting of `30d`.
```
@jdockerty Is this correct?

Reviewer: Exactly that :100:
